# Conclusion

Ending thoughts & a functional way to visualize the Pegs cash

Pegs cash uses ideas from Uniswap and AMMs to build a novel hybrid stablecoin design never seen before. In a Uniswap pool, the ratio of asset A and B has to be proportional due to the constant product function. The LP token is just a pro rata claim on the pool + fees so it is usually increasing in value (if fees higher than impermanent loss) or loses value (if impermanent loss greater than fees). The LP token is just passive claims on the pool. 

Pegs cash takes that idea and turns it over to design a unique stablecoin. The LP token is the stablecoin, FRAX. It is the object of stabilization and always mintable/redeemable for $1 worth of collateral and the governance (PEGS) token at the collateral ratio. This ratio of the two assets (collateral and PEGS) dynamically changes based on the price of the stablecoin. If the stablecoin price is dropping, then the protocol tips the ratio in favor of collateral and less in the PEGS token to regain confidence in PUSD. The system will mint PEGS at a discounted price to purchase mortgage assets in the market, and the emergence of arbitrage opportunities will allow arbitrageurs to mint new PUSD.This recollateralizes the protocol to the new, higher collateral ratio. 

If PUSD is over $1, then the protocol tips the collateral ratio to the PEGS token to measure the market's confidence in more PUSD supply being stabilized algorithmically. As PUSD becomes more algorithmic, the excess collateral can go back to PEGS holders through a buyback shares function that anyone can call to burn their PEGS tokens for an equal value of excess collateral. The "buyback swap" function always keeps value accruing to the governance token any time there is excess fees/collateral/value in the system. 

This 'PEGS dance' is always happening and uses AMM game theory to test different ratios of collateralization, incentivize recollateralizing through arbitrage swaps, and redistribute excess value back to PEGS holders through a buyback swap. The protocol starts at a 100% collateral ratio at genesis and might or might not ever get to purely algorithmic. The novel insight is to use market forces itself to see how much of a stablecoin can be algorithmically stabilized with its own seigniorage token so that it keeps a tight band around \$1 like fiatcoins. Purely algorithmic/rebase designs like Basis, ESD, and Seigniorage Shares have wildly fluctuating prices as much as +-40% around \$1 that take days/weeks to stabilize before going through another cycle. This is counterproductive and assumes the market actually wants/needs a stablecoin with 0% collateralization. Frax doesn't make this assumption. Instead, it measures the market's preference and finds the actual collateral ratio which holds a stablecoin tightly around \$1, periodically testing small differences in the ratio when the price of PUSD slightly rises/drops. Pegs cash uses AMM concepts to make a real-time fractional-algorithmic stablecoin that is as fast at price recovery as Uniswap is at keeping trading pools correctly priced.  As this system gets more efficient and the velocity of the system increases, collateral pools can include other assets instead of stablecoins like volatile crypto such as ETH and wrapped BTC. As the price of the volatile asset rises, users will use the buy back shares function to distribute the excess value to PEGS holders. When the price of the volatile collateral drops, there is an instant arbitrage opportunity to put in more crypto for discounted PEGS to keep the collateral ratio at the target. Just like a Uniswap trading pair keeps its constant product function balanced, the Frax Protocol keeps its target collateral ratio balanced to what the market needs for PUSD to be $1. 

The above example uses "collateral" and "PEGS" as the two assets within the protocol, but in reality, Frax can have multiple pools of collateral and multiple algorithmic token pools with weights, similar to Balancer. The protocol currently has USDC collateral pools and just 1 algorithmic token: PEGS. 

We believe that the Mixed-algorithmic design of PEGS. Cash is paradigm shifting for stablecoins. It is fast, real-time balancing, algorithmic, governance-minimized, and extremely resilient. We strongly believe the Pegs cash protocol can become a foil to Bitcoin's "hard money" narrative by demonstrating algorithmic monetary policy to create a trustless stablecoin that all of the crypto community can embrace.