# Introduction

Many stablecoin protocols have entirely embraced one spectrum of design (entirely collateralized) or the other extreme (entirely algorithmic with no backing). Collatralized stablecoins either have custodial risk or require on-chain overcollateralization. These designs provide a stablecoin with a fairly tight peg with higher confidence than purely algorithmic designs. Purely algorithmic designs such as Basis, Empty Set Dollar, and Seigniorage Shares provide a highly trustless and scalable model that captures the early Bitcoin vision of decentralized money but with useful stability. The issue with algorithmic designs is that they are difficult to bootstrap, slow to grow (as of Q4 2020 none have significant traction), and exhibit extreme periods of volatility which erodes confidence in their usefulness as actual stablecoins. 

Pegs cash attempts to be the first stablecoin protocol to implement design principles of both to create a highly scalable, trustless, extremely stable, and ideologically pure on-chain money. The Pegs cash is a two token system encompassing a stablecoin, PUSD, and a governance token, Pegs share(PEGS). The protocol also has pool contracts which hold collateral (at genesis USDT and USDC). Pools can be added or removed with governance. 

Although there's no predetermined timeframes for how quickly the amount of collateralization changes, we believe that as PUSD adoption increases, users will be more comfortable with a higher percentage of PUSD supply being stabilized algorithmically rather than with collateral. The collateral ratio refresh function in the protocol can be called by any user once per hour. The function can change the collateral ratio in steps of 0.25% if the price of PUSD is above or below \$1. When PUSD is above \$1, the function lowers the collateral ratio by one step and when the price of PUSD is below $1, the function increases the collateral ratio by one step. Both refresh rate and step parameters can be adjusted through governance. In a future update of the protocol, they can even be adjusted dynamically using a PID controller design. The price of PUSD, PEGS, and collateral are all calculated with a time-weighted average of the Uniswap pair price and the ETH:USD Chainlink oracle. The Chainlink oracle allows the protocol to get the true price of USD instead of an average of stablecoin pools on Uniswap. This allows PUSD to stay stable against the dollar itself which would provide greater resiliency instead of using a weighted average of existing stablecoins only.

PUSD stablecoins can be minted by placing the appropriate amount of its constituent parts into the system. At genesis, PUSD is 100% collateralized, meaning that minting PUSD only requires placing collateral into the minting contract. During the fractional phase, minting PUSD requires placing the appropriate ratio of collateral and burning the ratio of PEGS. Pegs cash supports the generation of multiple stable coins, and will initially support PUSD (stable coins pegged with USD). Peg Cash will not only become a stable currency issuance agreement for the US dollar, but Pegs cash v2 will support the issuance of a series of stable currencies, such as EUR and RMB.

